---
title: Elections and Midterm Review
date: 2016-11-08
agenda:
  - relative_url: /assignments/election-predictions-in-sql
  - relative_url: /articles/midterm-prep/about-midterm-data
---


### From Dan

Hey, get going on this [Election Predictions in SQL](/assignments/election-predictions-in-sql) assignment, which has to be done by 5 because of that election thing. Sorry for the late notice!

- Download this SQLite database: [election2016.sqlite](/files/data/midterm/election2016.sqlite)
- Look at it in spreadsheet form, [especially the queries page](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/11g7klkE409-j9JR-3e6Qv2U9q22uz-TXTjirIh6pe40/edit#gid=1595620166). 
- Do the assignment, as overly verbosely as it is written. Basically, I want you to end up with a spreadsheet like this: [Dan's predictions](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1sZzks6XpBhrNigBJP-7cjScphHkwDFAHePzX5QyE1g8/edit#gid=1918008464)

Winner gets a prize. Usually it's been me.





I'll show up to class at around 1:50PM. Please complete at least these steps, and then [practice the long list of queries I provided](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/11g7klkE409-j9JR-3e6Qv2U9q22uz-TXTjirIh6pe40/edit#gid=1595620166)) as they are relevant to the midterm.

If you can solve the queries rated __4__, you're good to go.


Make sure you can complete these steps for the homework:


1. Download this database: [election2016.sqlite](/files/data/midterm/election2016.sqlite)
2. Open it.
3. Look at the `predictions` table with `SELECT * from predictions`
4. You have to fill that table yourself, so delete everything in it: `DELETE FROM predictions`
5. Insert a row that represents what you think the national race will turn out: `INSERT INTO predictions(sunetid, state, Trump, Clinton) VALUES('leland', 'Nationwide', 40.5, 56.7)`


Now think about how to do that for every row for the 51 states.


Hints:

- How do we select a list of state names and popular vote for Obama and Romney in the 2012 race (check the `results` table)
- How do we get a list of the top 10 state names with the highest Hispanic population? (check `acs_1yr` table)
- How do we get the average polling for the Republican and Democratic presidential candidates for Ohio, using only polls from 300 days into the race?



